Block API: Stabilize Block Hooks feature (#54293)
WordPress/gutenberg: docs/reference-guides/block-api/block-metadata.md

See the [the variations documentation](/docs/reference-guides/block-api/block-variations.md) for more details.

> ### Block Hooks

Reviewer: @gziolo I love these docs :) 

The only thing that I'm confused about is that the docs as written here make it sound like the filters can be used for any blocks answhere. Which is not correct if I understand things correctly. Hooks only get applied for blocks inside non modified block templates of a block based theme 🤔 

Is that so or do these hooks also fire for any block just anywhere saved in post content?

Author: Great catch. We definitely need to cover it, as communication is critical here. It only applies to block patterns (not generated by the user), template parts, and templates loaded from the block theme files. Essentially, the feature never changes the content created/modified by the user on the website, which I think is very intuitive once you wrap your head around how it all works. The only challenge I encountered myself is that it's difficult to tell where to clear modifications to see the blocks automatically hooked. Sometimes it's the template you work within the site editor, but sometimes it might be the template part. We can further improve the UI to make it more evident in the future.

By the way, I believe that we will also need a How-to Guide covering it all, a lengthy dev note, and a detailed blog post at https://developer.wordpress.org/news/ 😅 .

Reviewer 2: > By the way, I believe that we will also need a How-to Guide covering it all, a lengthy dev note, and a detailed blog post at https://developer.wordpress.org/news/ 😅 .

It looks like @ndiego already has it on his radar for the Developer Blog 🎉  https://github.com/WordPress/developer-blog-content/issues/168

Author: I added a section to the block registration document with https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/54293/commits/7c0c3a0e815a0853af7db71e0745e057f8e882dc. I'm happy to apply some edits, but we should plan extending that part in a follow-up PR so we have time to stabilize the API before the next Gutenberg plugin release.

> It’s crucial to emphasize that the Block Hooks feature is designed to work only with static templates, template parts, and patterns loaded from HTML files shipped with the theme. It also integrates with patterns registered on the server by the site. The modification will never apply to the post content or patterns crafted by the user, nor theme templates and template parts modified by the user.

Reviewer 3: For now, [this Trac ticket](https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/59313) has some information on the feature and the architectural decisions (and tradeoffs) that went into it 😄

-   Type: `object`
-   Optional
-   Property: `blockHooks`
-   Since: `WordPress 6.4.0`

```json
{
	"blockHooks": {
		"my-plugin/banner": "after"
	}
}
```

> Block Hooks is the API that allows a block to hook into the rendering of another block. It will enable a block to render its content before or after another block. It's also possible to hook into the rendering of a parent block and prepend or append the block to the list of child blocks. The key is the name of the block to hook into, and the value is the position to hook into. Take a look at the [Block Hooks documentation](/docs/reference-guides/block-api/block-registration.md#block-hooks-optional) for more info about the available configurations.

Reviewer 3: This paragraph mentions _rendering_ of hooked blocks; maybe it's worth mentioning that they aren't only rendered (on the frontend) but also available for customization in the editor 🤔 

(Not a blocker; we can polish documentation later.)

Reviewer 3: Something like

```suggestion
Block Hooks is an API that allows a block to automatically insert itself next to all instances of a given block type, in a relative position also specified by the "hooked" block. That is, a block can opt to be inserted before or after a given block type, or as its first or last child (i.e. to be prepended or appended to the list of its child blocks, respectively). Hooked blocks will appear both on the frontend and in the editor (to allow for customization by the user).

The key is the name of the block to hook into, and the value is the position to hook into. Take a look at the [Block Hooks documentation](/docs/reference-guides/block-api/block-registration.md#block-hooks-optional) for more info about available configurations.
```

(But again, we can address this later.)
